---
layout: post
title: Group members attend the Annual Meeting of Chinese Geoscience Union in 2023.10.13-2023.10.17 (CGU-2023)
date: 2023-10-17 14:00:00
inline: false
related_posts: false
giscus_comments: true
thumbnail: assets/img/cgu2023.jpg
---

**JI Cong** gave a talk named “The crustal anisotropy of the SE Tibet revealed by an iterative weighted least square method” in the 91th topic of the 2023 CGU. He introduced the newly developed method based on receiver functions and the deformation mechanism of the SE Tibet revealed by the crustal anisotropy. Besides, he focused on the talks on the deformation of the lithosphere and asthenosphere of the North China Craton, numerical experiments on the lithospheric deformation, and other geophysical studies on the SE Tibet.




<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/cgu2023-jicong.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
</div>
</div>


***

**GENG Jiaqi** made an oral report titled “Upper Mantle Anisotropy beneath Southeastern Japan from splitting intensity of s wave”. The report showed the benefits of retrieving splitting parameters from splitting intensity comparing with traditional methods and found splitting intensity of s wave from local events could be determined precisely in certain frequency. Comparing with previous studies in this area, the splitting parameters fitted from splitting intensity are similar in general, but more robust in particular stations.



<div class="row">
    <div class="col-sm mt-3 mt-md-0">
        {% include figure.html path="assets/img/cgu2023-gengjiaqi.jpg" class="img-fluid rounded z-depth-1" %}
</div>
</div>

***

WU Hanting, ZHAO Long, and YE Weiran also attended the meeting and have been inspired by the talks.

**WU Hanting**: So many insightful ideas from this conference. I got to explore some fellow researchers who are currently doing similar studies in my research areas. Although time was limited and I didn’t have the chance for networking, I can still see the possibility to build up connections in the future. It’s like you are not alone in this path. I felt energized and full of hope and confidence.

**ZHAO Long**: By participating in CGU-2023, I gained a wealth of new knowledge and insights, and made valuable connections with colleagues in my field. Throughout the conference, I attended multiple thematic discussions, immersing myself in the latest research advancements and trends. The topics that particularly stood out to me were the correlation between deep well water temperature and earthquakes, as well as the utilization of lake sediment to study ancient seismic records. These subjects left a lasting impression on me. Moreover, I actively engaged in various academic exchange activities, fostering in-depth discussions with scholars from esteemed institutions like the Xinjiang Institute of Ecology and Geography. These interactions broadened my horizons and bolstered my academic proficiency. CGU-2023 has reinforced my understanding that scientific research is an ongoing journey of learning and exploration. I am dedicated to continuously improving my academic abilities.

**YE Weiran**: This is my first time participating in a large academic conference, and the days in Zhuhai have been very fulfilling and joyful. A conference is an exchange of ideas, an attempt to break free from the cocoon of information. The process of seeking presentations based on interests and research needs is like a treasure hunt. I am eager to broaden my knowledge, following in the footsteps of great minds, and also delighted by the smooth and logically clear presentations by fellow attendees that I occasionally discover. Sometimes there are inaccurate or incomplete reports, not valuable enough to be pearls in my hands, but they can be used for casual conversations with classmates during meal breaks. By learning from others and examining oneself, I can feel that there is a close passion and meaningful existence in the midst of what seems like a long and distant research journey.